Why Core Fluency Thesaurus by Prof. Kev Nair one of the ideal books to achieve great fluency in English?
It's the the world's first fluency-oriented Thesaurus that focuses only on words which have maximum general utility.
You'll learn about Phrases, collocations, phrasal verbs, idioms, and other multi-word items.

The headwords are all verbs.
Written English heavily relies on nouns. But speech mainly happens in verbs. Each verb stands for an idea and to master verbs is to learn to think in terms of ideas and expressions. Verbs determine the pattern the clauses and sentences take. The other phrases such as noun phrases, adverbials take positions around the verb. So, verb is the central element of an idea units.

Under each headword, you will get word groups that express meanings similar to, or somewhat similar to its important meanings. 

Now, why word-groups and not single words?
Speech happens in word-groups. Though we use single words, nobody composes speech word by word by observing the rules of grammar. It's neither feasible nor practical. This is the main reason why foreign speakers struggle to speak English fluently. They think that knowing the meaning of a lot of words is enough. You see, knowing the meanings of words in isolation is just a first step. The more important thing is to use those words in the company of other words. How they relates to other words, what patterns they usually fit into, what other words can be used instead, what they are synonyms of, what their idioms, collocations are, what their antonyms are, and so on. By associating the finite number of words with other words, you build an infinite web of meanings and ideas. When you have a big enough web, you can catch almost any expression which goes on in your mind. 

How is this book useful?
It forces you to think how the word groups are related to the headword. It introduces you to all the nuaunces of the headword. You get the 360-degree view of the word. By trying to relate all the word-groups to the headword and to each other, you'll actively engage in the excercise. And this is the most efficient way to develop greater fluency.  

You can do an interesting excercise to master phrasal verbs. Select a phrasal verb. Now, find out all the headwords which contain this phrasal verb. This activity will induce you to think how this phrasal verb conveys that meaning.

Why should you buy an Advanced Learner’s Dictionary?
Especially, for foreign learners, a dictionary is where you learn first-hand the meanings of words, the idioms, collocations, and things. It's also important for pronunication.
You should buy a dictionary meant for advanced learners (published by the Oxford University Press or by some other reputed publisher like Longman, COBUILD, Cambridge, or Macmillan).

===================
The body cannot absorb any protein as such. If protein is absorbed directly into the blood stream, without first undergoing the processes of digestion, it is poisonous. Proteins must be broken down into simpler compounds known as amino acids before they can be absorbed and assimilated. Introduce the amino acids out of which proteins are made and all is well.

Animals are able only to analyze proteins in the process of digestion, and resynthesize the resulting amino acids into new and different proteins.

 It is held that the amino acids other than the ten or twelve indispensable ones can be made by the tissues from the essential amino acids, apparently by oxydizing them.

 Thus it may be seen that since the nutritive value of proteins is determined by the kinds and quantities of amino acids they contain, all proteins are not of equal value to the body and cannot be used interchangeably. 

 One protein corrects the defects of another.

 Green vegetables also contain high grade proteins, although in very small amounts. But when these are added to the diet in large quantities, as in consuming large daily salads, they are capable of supplementing the deficiencies in an all-cereal diet and rendering this adequate.

Green vegetables contain proteins of a very high quality, though in small quantities. Nuts, on the other hand, rank with or even surpass, flesh foods in the quantity of their proteins, while their proteins are of equal rank with those of flesh.

Disaccharides and polysaccharides are converted into monosaccharides in the process of digestion, as carbohydrates can be absorbed and assimilated only as monosaccharides. Starch must first be converted into sugar and the complex sugars must be converted into simple sugars before they are absorbed. 

 Three unsaturated fatty acids--linoleic, linolenic and arachaidonic--cannot be synthesized by the animal organism. Only one of these is considered essential, for, as in the case of certain amino acids, they can replace one another in animal nutrition. 

    The waste formed in the body, due to its normal activities, is acid in reaction. The greater part of the work of neutralizing these acids is done by the mineral elements--the "ash."

   If our foods do not contain enough of the right kinds of mineral salts we simply starve to death. It does not matter how much "good nourishing food," as this is commonly understood, that we consume, if these salts are not present in sufficient quantities we suffer from slow starvation, with glandular imbalance or disfunction, lowered resistance to "disease" and other evidences of decay.

   It[Iodine] is required for the digestion, assimilation and combustion of fats. When a shortage occurs the fats cannot be satisfactorily dealt with, and it is stored in the subcutaneous tissue.

   B1 vitamin == More is required during pregnancy and lactation than at other times.

   Mothers need it during the last two months of pregnancy and during lactation. Sunbathing by mothers will also be or great value.
   
      Darker colored vegetables have more vitamins. They are known to have more minerals. Sunshine favors vitamin storage. The green outer stalks and leaves of lettuce, cabbage, celery, etc., are more abundant in vitamins than the pale inner leaves and stalks. The green leaves of tubers possess more vitamins than the tubers.

The vitamins and minerals contained in fruits, vegetables and nuts are much more available than those derived from other sources.

...our ability to utilize vitamins depends upon the presence of other elements in our diet. To eat concentrated vitamins and not consume these other elements in equal proportions would simply waste much of the vitamins

In the ancient Hebrew writing (Exodus) we read: "And Moses said * * * Jehovah shall give you in the evening, flesh to eat, and in the morning, bread to the full, * * * and Jehovah spake unto Moses saying * * * at evening ye shall eat flesh, and in the morning ye shall be filled with bread."

Matured or "dried" beans of all types are known to every one to quickly ferment, when eaten, and produce much gas

  Certainly foods requiring an alkaline condition for their digestion should not be eaten with foods necessitating an acid condition for their digestion. Foods requiring an alkaline condition for digestion should not be eaten with acids.

  We know that the type of juice that is poured into the stomach is determined by the kind of food that is eaten.
  Liebig laid down a "law of the minimum" in these words: "The development of living beings is regulated by the supply of whichever element is least bountifully provided."

 Real hunger is a mouth and throat sensation.

  If we eat when we are not hungry, and if the delicate sensibilities of taste have been dulled and deadened by gluttonous indulgence and by condiments, spices, alcohol, etc., it ceases to be a reliable guide.

  Both the quality and quantity, and the frequency of meals should be regulated by the rules of hygiene rather than by those of etiquette and convenience.

  Keep your mind out of your stomach.

  Drink all the water desired ten to fifteen minutes before meals, thirty minutes after fruit meals, two hours after starch meals and four hours after protein meals.

  "It may therefore, be laid down as a general law, that all processes of cooking, or artificial preparations of food by fire, are, in themselves, considered with reference to the very highest and best condition of human nature, in some degree detrimental to the physiological and psychological interests of man."

  If a sudden and radical change from the conventional diet to a new one did not result in some systemic reactions we would feel that the new diet was of the same character as the old one and expect no beneficial results therefrom.
  ...the longer one type of food is eaten, the more efficient will digestion become. 

  From limited observations I am convinced that a child relishes most and digests best the type of foods upon which the mother fed during pregnancy.

  food must be seen, smelled and tasted if digestion is to proceed normally. But the food must not be so disguised by condiments, spices, etc., as to deceive the senses as this will hinder the setting into motion, through the nerves, of the mechanism necessary to digestion.

    The acidity of gastric juice is determined by the food eaten, by the length of time that has elapsed since the food was consumed, and by the familiarity or unfamiliarity of the system with the food.

    There are foods, like the starches, which, so far as stomach digestion is concerned, can only be digested in an alkaline medium--saliva--and others, like the proteins, which can only be digested in an acid medium--gastric juice--and if eaten together, interfere with the digestion of each other.

    Fat depresses, or inhibits, the normal activity of the secretory processes and this inhibitory effect while, perhaps partly mechanical, is for the most part chemical ...

    When, finally, the work of digestion is completed in the intestine the carbohydrates have been reduced to a form of sugar known as monosaccharides, the fats have been converted into fatty acids and glycerol and the proteins have been reduced to amino-acids. Water and salts undergo no change. 
  ========
  
Yuval Noah Harari: A Brief History Of The Future

"Even today, the jobs of hundreds of millions of people around the world are far more boring than going to the forests to look for mushrooms."
~ Yuval Noah Harari

"As a collective we obvioulsy know far more than the people in stone age. As individuals, we probably know far less."
~ Yuval Noah Harari

"The source of wealth of California today is the knowledge in the minds of engineers, technicians, and CEOs and you just cannot conquer it by force."
~ Yuval Noah Harari

"Terrorists function by capturing our imagination, turning our imagination against us, and causing us to overeact."

