@. Group 1
•check on sb’s progress• carry out a project• come to power/
prominence• carry out a promise• deliver on a promise• live up to
a promise• dispose of stolen property• invest in a hotel property•
decide on the correct proportion• agree to a proposal• turn down
a proposal• open up exciting prospects• rule out the prospect
(of...)• throw away your career prospects• weigh up the longterm
prospects• break up the protest• spark off a wave of protest•
walk out in protest• appear in public• speak in public• win over
the public• mete out punishment• pay for the purchase• lay out
your purchases (on the table)• throw off your pursuers• work out
a puzzle• vary in quality• call into question• come into question•
reply to a question• respond to a question• fire off questions•
stand in a queue• enter for a race• run in a race• run in the 100-
metre etc. race• listen to sth on the radio• listen to the radio• turn
on/off a radio• fly into a rage• hang from the rail• lean on the rail•
run along/on rails• work on the railway(s)• listen to the rain•
break up a rally• call for a rally (against sth)• speak at a rally•
come within range.
speed up the rate• speed up chemical reactions• appeal to a
reader• face up to life’s realities• escape from reality• wake up to
reality• listen to reason• search for some reason• stand to reason•
change out of all recognition• listen to a recording• bring about
a recovery• hope for a recovery• agree to a reduction• ask for a
reduction• bring about a reduction• call for a reduction• lead to a
reduction• result in a reduction• ask for references• bring about a
reform• call for a reform• carry out/through a reform• cry out for
a reform• lead to a reform• press for a reform• speed up a reform•
work for a reform• live in a far-flung region• work in a region•
sigh with regret• abide by the statutory regulations• act against
the official regulations• bring in regulations• comply with the
traffic regulations• conform to regulations• draw up regulations•
lay down regulations• break off diplomatic relations• break off
relations• call for sb’s release (from detention)• campaign for sb’s
release• work for sb’s release• come as a relief• cry with relief• sigh
with relief• believe in (a) religion• belong to a religion• live sw
free of rent• carry out repairs• call for a report• draw up a report•
build on your reputation• build up a reputation (for yourself)•
compromise on reputation• live up to your reputation• agree to a
request• carry out a request• turn down sb’s request• comply with
a requirement• comply with all legal requirements• conform to
the precise requirements• fit in with the requirements• lay down
the procedural requirements• come to the/sb’s rescue.
rush to the/sb’s rescue• carry out (a) research• build up
reserves• hand in your resignation• break down resistance• build
up financial resources• draw on capital resources• rely on your
resources• use up resources• call for a prompt response• lead
to a quick response• meet with lukewarm response• fail in your
responsibility• come to rest• lay to rest• stop for a rest• eat in a
restaurant• walk out of a restaurant• aim at a high return• call
for a return to the previous situation• vote for a return to civilian
rule• bring in good returns• wait for the returns• carry out a
review• come up for review• call for a revolution• carry out a
revolution• lead to a revolution• spark off a revolution• stir up
a revolution• come along for the ride• drive on the left/right•
turn hard (to your) right• fight for your rights• stand up for your
rights• sit in a ring• stand in a ring• spark off a riot• bring about a
rise in violence• cope with a rise in unemployment• lead to a rent
rise• result in a tax rise• allow for price rises• warn off a rival• stay
on a road• turn into a road• turn off a road• turn onto a road• drill
through rocks• sit on the rocks• turn over rocks (to look for sth)•
climb onto the roof• slip into the room• stay in your room.
steal into a room• decide on the place (for the picnic etc.)•
work out a route• settle into a routine• develop into a row• spark
off a row• trigger off a row• throw out rubbish• lie in ruins• play
by a rule• stick to a rule• kick against rules• stick to the rules•
break into a run• break into a safe• compromise on safety• dive for
safety• fear for sb’s safety• run for safety• sigh with satisfaction•
add up to the savings• break into your savings• build up your
savings• dip into your savings• draw on your savings• live on your
savings• tie up your savings• break off contact with sb• bring out
the best in sb• bring out the worst in sb• call up associations for
sb (with sth)• come into agreement with sb• come into contact
with sb• come under attack from sb• decide in favour of sb• knock
all the fight out of sb• listen with (close) attention to sb• meet
with the approval of sb• rule in favour of sb• apply in the name
of sb/sth• live in terror of sb/sth• not have anything against sb/
sth• not have/be anything to do with sb/sth• sit in judgment on
sb/sth• stand in judgment on sb/sth• stand with your back to sb/
sth• stay out of the way of sb/sth• step down in favour of sb/sth•
move down/up the social scale• rise up the pay scale• rise up
the salary scale• step up the scale (of a programme etc.)• appear
on the scene• arrive on the scene• pick up a scent• adhere to
the schedule• arrive ahead of schedule• depart from schedule•
draw up a schedule• run ahead of the schedule• run behind
the schedule• run to schedule• stick to the schedule• work to a
schedule• learn at/in school• return to school• stay after school•
stay at school• stay in school• stay on at school/university• pay
off a score• act as a screen• come to the screen• drift out to sea•
travel by sea• call off a search• carry out a search• come into
season• jump from your seat.
rise from your seat• dwell in seclusion• live in seclusion• rest
in seclusion• come (a poor) second• finish (a close) second• finish
in seconds• act as a secretary• resign as a secretary• work as a
secretary• play in the wind section (of the orchestra)• single out a
section• come from the poor sections (of the society)• compromise
on security• step up security• carry out a selection• choose from a
selection• come to your senses• appeal against a sentence• hand
down a sentence• arrange in a sequence• prepare for the series
(against a team)• spark off a series (of events)• come into service•
ring for room service• lead by two sets• bring about a settlement•
consent to sex• engage in sex• find out the sex (of your baby)•
throw off the yoke/shackles• emerge from a shadow• loom up
out of a shadow• lurk in a shadow• move into a shadow• shrink
into a shadow• slip (back) into a shadow• step out from/of a
shadow• wait in a shadow• jump out of the shadows• laugh till
your sides shake• die of shame• live with shame• keep in shape•
lose its shape• stay in shape• deal in shares• invest in shares•
trade in shares• begin with a clean sheet• sing from the same
song sheet• run for cover/shelter• bring about a sudden shift• call
for a fundamental shift• lead to a shift (towards sth)• result in a
shift• break up a ship• disembark from a ship• fit out a ship• jump
a ship• tie up a ship• travel in a/by ship• come as a complete/
terrible shock (to sb)• come as a shock• recover from a shock•
suffer from shock• lace up your shoes• try for a close-up shot (of
sb/sth)• come up to sb’s shoulder.
@. Group 2
•ride on sb’s shoulders• lie on your side• run to sb’s side• stand
to one side• walk at/by sb’s side• come in/within sight• come
into (sb’s) sight• come into view• disappear from sight• shoot
at/on sight• stay out of sight• stress on the significance of sth•
argue about a situation (with sb)• bring about a situation• cope
with a situation• deal with a situation• lead to a situation• run
into a situation• grow in size• grow to a considerable size• try for
size• vary in size• come in all shapes and sizes• come in different
shapes and sizes• die in his sleep• drop into a deep sleep• drop
off to sleep.
settle down to sleep• talk in your sleep• break into a smile•
play in the snow• stamp off the snow (from the boots)• belong to
a society• fit into a society• live in a society• move in high society•
resign from a society• enlist as a soldier• serve as a soldier• come
up with a solution• search for a solution• bring up a son• break
into song• burst into song• lose its soul• listen for sounds• come
from a source• cut off a source• find out a source• refer to a
source• rely on a source• back out of a parking space• stare into
space• wipe out a species• lead to much speculation• pick up/
gather speed• enter into the true spirit (of sth)• ward off evil
spirits• lead to a split• excel at sport• dance on the spot• hop on
the spot• run on the spot• break out in spots• employ over 100
etc. staff• lay off your staff• race up/down the stairs• end in a
stalemate• compromise on standards• meet with standards• come
to a standstill• rise to fame/stardom• shoot to stardom• sit up
with a start• wake up with a start• lie in state• work yourself into
a state• grow in stature• rise in status• walk with slow steps• act
as a check on sth• sell off the stock• aim at the development of
sth• ask for news of sth• call for the development of sth• call for
the strict regulation of sth• call off a strike• carry out a study of
sth• come as low as sth• come level with sth• come out in favour
of (doing) sth• come to do sth• come under pressure to do sth•
complain about the lack of sth• depend on the discovery of sth•
find out the real worth of sth• focus on the development of sth•
lay down strict conditions for doing sth• lead to the development
of sth• lean in the direction of sth• lie at the heart of sth• live in
constant/daily fear of sth• pick up a knowledge of sth• place sb
in charge of sth• play down the importance of sth• react to shifts
in sth• recover from the effects of sth• result in serious injury to
sth• run through the (main) body of sth• speculate on the cause
of sth• speed up the development of sth• stem from a lack of sth•
step up the export of sth• stick to doing sth• stick to the letter of
sth• strike at the heart of sth• strike at the root(s) of sth• suffer
from a lack of sth• suffer from the effects of sth• talk about the
importance of sth• vote in favour of sth• walk with the assistance
of sth• kick up a stink.
add to the stock• pile up the stock• lie on your stomach•
change into stone• come to a dead stop• come to a stop• draw to
a stop• lie in store• crack under the pressure/strain• walk through
the streets• build up your (physical) strength• grow in strength•
add to the stress• cope with stress• live under stress• work under
stress• call off a strike• come out on strike• dangle (sth) on a
string• shore up a structure• carry out a study• bring up a subject•
end in success• meet with success• act on (sb’s) suggestion• act
on a suggestion• agree to a suggestion• approve of a suggestion•
bridle at a suggestion• bristle at a suggestion• brush aside a
suggestion• carry out a suggestion• laugh at a suggestion• play
down a suggestion• scoff at a suggestion• shrug off a suggestion•
throw out a suggestion• turn down sb’s suggestion• work out a
sum• shut out the sun• sit in the sun• arrange for medical supplies•
ask for office supplies• build up supplies• cut down/off supplies•
draw on supplies• run out of supplies• rely on an adequate supply
(of sth)• step up the supply (of sth)• ask for sb’s support• drum
up support• rely on sb’s support• come to the surface• float to the
surface• rise to the surface• come as a big surprise (to sb)• come
as a complete surprise• come as a surprise (to sb)• come as no
surprise• cry (sth) in surprise• recover from a surprise• stare at
sb in surprise• carry out a survey• conduct a survey• struggle for
survival• come under scrutiny• come under suspicion• come from
the direction of sw• stop for meals sw• break into a sweat• bring
about flu-like symptoms• bang on the table• climb onto the table•
come to the negotiating table• knock against a table• rise from
the table• sit at a table• sit round the table• wait on tables• come
down tails• break off talks• enter into talks• meet for talks• tie up
with tape• aim at a target• find its target• carry out a task• cope
with a task• rise to the task• cater for sb’s taste(s)• pay for the
taxi• pay off the taxi• ring for a taxi• come to tea• pass on (sb’s)
teaching• play for a team• work in a team• break down in tears•
break into tears• choke back tears• come near to tears.
@. Group 3
•end in tears• fight back (the) tears• fill with tears• wipe away
your tears• try out a technique• work at/on a technique• work
out a technique• invest in the latest technology• lie through your
teeth• hang up the telephone• pick up the telephone• switch off a
television• switch on a television• switch off a television• turn off/
on a television• work in television• act in a fit of temper• fly into a
temper• compete on equal terms• fill with terror• carry out a test•
do a test• revise for a test• add to the text• dispose of the stock•
refer to the text• stray from a text• come to the conclusion that...•
work in theatre• deal with a theme• draw on a theme• elaborate
on a theme• launch out into a theme• pick up a theme• revert to a
theme• stick to a theme• try out a theme• work on a theme• write
about a theme• subscribe to a theory• work on a theory• carry out
a threat (to do sth)• come out as a threat• come under threat•
carry out a promise.
swim against the tide• swim with the tide• end in a tie• finish
in a tie• result in a tie• arrive on time• come at the right/wrong
time• die before your time• fill in (the) time• run on time• stay for
a long time• work against time• date from ancient times• move
with the times• pass on a tip• pick up a tip• stand on the tips (of
your toes)• respond to a title• aim for the top• come out on top•
come to the top• rise to the top• stay on top (of sb/sth)• bring up
a topic• deal with a topic• dwell on a topic• elaborate on a topic•
embark on a topic• focus on a topic• return to a topic• speak on
a topic• stick to a topic• think of a topic• touch on a topic• write
on a topic• range over various topics• carry out the torture• resort
to torture• drive away tourists• frighten away tourists• drive into
town• live in (the) town• walk into the town• walk round the
town• disappear without trace• vanish without trace• stop in your
tracks• break with tradition• end in tragedy• lead to a tragedy•
climb into a train• come by train• jump off the train• meet on the
train• ride on a train• step down from the train• travel by train•
travel on the same train• enter into a transaction• engage in a
transaction• speed up the transfer (of information etc.)• walk into
a trap• respond to treatment• climb up/down a tree• cut down a
tree• lean against a tree• run into a tree• grow on trees• come to
trial• wait for your trial• call off a trip• call off your trip• bring in
troops• call out the troops• send in the troops• break into a trot•
ask for trouble• keep out of trouble• prepare for trouble.
run into trouble• stay out of trouble• stir up trouble• place
sth in trust• arrive at the truth• find out the truth• dance to sb’s
tune• speak out of turn• turn on/off the TV• print in bold type•
arrive at an understanding• come to an understanding• bring
down unemployment• cope with unemployment• deal with
unemployment• lead to unemployment• live together in perfect
union• appeal for unity• bring about unity• call for unity• lead to
unity• work for unity• apply for university• apply to a university•
drop out of university• drive prices up• stress on urgency• come
into use• decrease in value• drop in value• grow in value• increase
in value• rise in value• stress on value• believe in family values•
think about variety• cut up vegetables• tow away a vehicle•
travel in a vehicle• bring out a new version• come forward with
a different version• come out/up with an improved version• roll
out a customized version• finish off a victim• stroll to victory•
turn off the video• come into view• come to a view• come within
view• confirm you in your view (that…)• disappear from view•
pass out of view• deal with violence• engage in violence• lead
to violence• resort to violence• turn to violence• test for a virus•
come for a visit• lift up your voice• shout at the top of your voice•
decrease in volume• double in volume• grow in volume• increase
in volume• rise in volume• turn down the volume• turn up the
volume• decided by (a) vote• ask for votes• bring in votes• canvass
for votes• bring in a high wage• force down wages• live on small
wages• drop into a walk• slow to a walk• jump off a wall• jump
over a wall• knock down a wall• lean against a wall• slip over the
wall• stand against the wall.
tear down a wall• add to a fund• draw on a fund• subscribe to
a fund• add to your funds• appeal for funds• build up funds• cut
back the funds• run out of funds• fly into a fury• not have much
of a future• plan for the future• result in great gains• break into a
gallop• lose in a game• lay out a garden• cook on a high/low gas•
cook on a medium gas• turn on the gas• climb over a gate• live
for generations• lose by a goal• believe in God• hope to God• pan
for gold• prospect for gold• bring down the government• resign
from the Government• apply for a grant• live on a grant• qualify
for a benefit• qualify for a grant• slip from sb’s grasp• play on
grass• sit on the grass• walk on the grass• weep with grief• come
to the ground• jump onto the ground• jump to the ground• lie on
the ground• live on the ground• sit on the ground• turn up the
ground• work in groups• come with a guarantee• refer to a guide•
serve as a guide• lay down guidelines• stick to your guns• pick up
a habit• break with old habits• pick up bad habits• clutter up the
hall• crowd into a hall• file into a hall• lead to a hall• come to a
halt• draw to a halt• slow to a halt• die by sb’s hand• eat out of
sb’s hand• reach for sb’s hand• reach out your hand (for sb/sth)•
find its way into sb’s hands• pass into sb’s hands• stand on your
hands• throw up your hands (in despair)• search for happiness•
cry with happiness• cry with joy• come to no harm• lead to serious
harm• hang over your head• stand on your head (to do sth)• call
heads• fail in health• return to health• cry from the heart• speak
from the heart• suffer from the heat• turn down the heat• turn up
the heat• turn on the heating.

@. Group 1
•background music• band music• church music• computer
music• country music• dance music• film music• guitar music•
period music• rock music• sheet music• soul music• theme music•
world music• code name• company name• family name• file name•
place name• second name• stage name• street name• trade name•
member nation• business need• community need• health care
need• information need• peace negotiation• trade negotiation•
news network• radio network• road network• business news•
city news• home news• Sunday newspaper• dance night• election
night• Friday night• Saturday night• wedding night• winter night•
case note(s)• love note• programme note• account number•
call number• house number• identity number• phone number•
record number• community nurse• day nurse• hospital nurse•
night nurse• school nurse• staff nurse• student nurse• business
objective• policy objective• family obligation• state occasion•
land occupation• service occupation• air offensive• job offer•
peace offer• area office• branch office• council office• district
office• government office• head office• newspaper office• press
office• air force officer• army officer• duty officer• investigation
officer• police officer• press officer• training officer• bank official•
company official• council official• court official• government
official• party official• state official• baby oil• bath oil• body oil•
engine oil• fish oil• fuel oil• hair oil• motor oil• vegetable oil• heart
operation• knee operation• police operation• relief operation•
security operation• minority opinion• business opportunity• job
opportunity• market opportunity• policy option• advance order•
court order• export order• repeat order• word order• world
order• government organisation• class origin• plant origin• car
owner• home owner• land owner• part owner• business package•
business page• problem page• title page• labour pain• oil paint•
figure painting• life painting• oil painting• wall painting• body
panel• control panel• wall panel• cigarette paper• computer paper•
discussion paper• evening paper• examination paper• identity
paper• kitchen paper• quality paper• question paper• research
paper• Sunday paper• test paper• toilet paper• writing paper• city
park• country park• state parliament• bit part• business partner•
business partnership• dinner party• garden party• Communist
party• majority party• minority party• opposition party• search
party• surprise party• side passage• child patient• hospital patient•
interest payment• part payment• tax payment• world peace•
tax penalty• company pension• state pension• business people•
country people• business performance• school performance• time
period• business person• second phase• market philosophy• car
phone• office phone• action photo• air photo• colour photo• cover
photo• family photo• group photo• newspaper photo• press photo•
quality photo• school photo• security photo• team photo• wedding
photo• air photograph• colour photograph• cover photograph•
family photograph• group photograph• school photograph• team
photograph• colour picture• centre piece• air force pilot• market
place• meeting place• school place• university place• action plan•
business plan• career plan• development plan• marriage plan•
master plan• peace plan• travel plan• family planning• town
planning• assembly plant• car plant• food plant• garden plant•
house plant• power plant• production plant• treatment plant•
side plate• radio play• bridge player• star player• love poem• war
poem• assembly point• match point• meeting point• pressure point•
reference point• security police• state police• company policy•
conservation policy• energy policy• government policy• housing
policy• insurance policy• life policy• motor policy• party policy•
transport policy• office politics• party politics• world politics• air
pollution• oil pollution• water pollution• car pool• labour pool•
school population• student population• world population• family
portrait• group portrait• business position• management position•
second position• army post• government post• police post•
university post• air power• enemy power• fire power• sea power•
water power• wind power• world power• business practice• group
practice• police presence• stage presence• club president• company
president• party president• state president• university president•
air pressure• blood pressure• water pressure• consumer price•
cost price• electricity price• energy price• food price• fuel price•
house price• land price• market price• oil price• property price•
purchase price• sale price• share price• school principal• market
principle• number one priority• life prisoner• attitude problem•
drink problem• drug problem• health problem• heart problem•
housing problem• knee problem• court procedure• management
process• peace process• planning process• production process•
selection process• film producer• oil producer• radio producer•
beauty product• consumer product• end product• food product•
household product• meat product• quality product• software
product• car production• film production• food production• oil
production• school production• stage production• health (care)
professional• group profit• record profit• action programme•
assistance programme• building programme• care programme•
conservation programme• crash programme• defence programme•
degree programme• development programme• education
programme• exercise programme• government programme•
health programme• improvement programme.
@. Group 2
•investment programme• match programme• news
programme• party programme• pilot programme• race
programme• radio programme• recovery programme• relief
programme• research programme• television/TV programme•
theatre programme• training programme• record progress•
building project• community project• development project•
history project• research project• campaign promise• election
promise• book promotion• health promotion• trade promotion•
business property• council property• family property• peace
proposal• research proposal• development prospect• election
prospect• job prospect• child protection• police protection• street
protest• student protest• country pub• business publication•
government publication• trade publication• house purchase• land
purchase• business purposes• research purposes• tax purposes•
paper qualification• air quality• product quality• service quality•
water quality• stock question• test question• boat race• dog race•
horse race• master race• motor race• road race• World Cup race•
army radio• car radio• community radio• police radio• state radio•
road rage• electric railway• peace rally• age range• price range•
product range• accident rate• bank rate• base rate• crime rate•
death rate• exchange rate• group rate• growth rate• inflation rate•
interest rate• market rate• marriage rate• success rate• tax rate•
health reason• security reason• government recognition• accident
record• club record• course record• health record• police record•
safety record• school record• speed record• track record• world
record• music recorder• test recorder• price recovery• reference
number• land reform• law reform• tax reform• class register• land
register• school register• government regulation• price regulation•
state regulation• building regulations• school regulations• class
relations• labour relations• power relations• race relations• trade
relations• business relationship• family relationship• power
relationship• family relative• book release• news release• interest
relief• tax relief• state religion• world religion• ground rent•
house rent• housing rent• land rent• office rent• accident report•
case report• committee report• company report• crash report•
government report• law report• magazine report• market report•
news report• newspaper report• police report• press report•
progress report• radio report• research report• school report•
status report• survey report• television report• weather report•
club representative• committee representative• community
representative• company representative• council representative•
government representative• industry representative• public
representative• student representative• trade representative•
union representative• business requirement• food requirement•
information requirement• labour requirement• cancer research•
market research• space research• family resemblance• army
reserve• food reserve• oil reserve• country residence• staff
resource• oil resources• water resources• family responsibility•
family restaurant• degree result(s)• election result(s)• football
result(s)• research results• surprise result• survey results• test
results• class reunion• family reunion• book review• film review•
government review• policy review• world revolution• car ride•
film rights• race riot• price rise• tax rise• health risk• security risk•
business rival• access road• coast road• country road• mountain
road• ring road• service road• side road• slip road• country rock•
film role• television role• title role• car roof• breakfast room•
committee room• conference room• control room• engine room•
family room• guest room• hotel room• incident room• interview
room• leg room• meeting room• news room• press room• reading
room• recovery room• staff room• store room• treatment room•
air route• trade route• club rules• company rules• competition
rules• home rule• Communist rule• majority rule• safety rule•
school rules• union rules• air safety• child safety• food safety•
home safety• road safety.
furniture sale• house sale• share sale• summer sales• world
sales• car sales• house sales• land sales• trade sanctions• cost
saving• life savings• time scale• world scale• action scene• art
scene• city scene• club scene• country scene• drug(s) scene•
fight scene• love scene• music scene• street scene• world scene•
business schedule• art school• business school• dance school•
day school• drama school• film school• language school• state
school• summer school• Sunday school• training school• village
school• food science• life science• school science• food scientist•
government scientist• research scientist• music score• record
score• test score• body search• police search• car seat• child seat•
Communist seat• split second• family secret• state secret• trade
secret• branch secretary• club secretary• company secretary•
district secretary• group secretary• press secretary• school
secretary• shadow secretary• business section• history section•
business sector• health sector• industry sector• market sector•
service sector• state sector• company securities• government
securities• home security• job security• state security• number
one seed• team selection.
@. Group 3
•business sense• dress sense• horse sense• life sentence• action
sequence• film sequence• radio series• test series• afternoon
service• church service• community service• customer service•
evening service• fire service• health service• library service• news
service• police service• prison service• quality service• security
service• support service• taxi service• telephone service• train
service• family session• hospital session• land settlement• peace
settlement• body shape• market share• answer sheet• fact sheet•
information sheet• news sheet• day shift• night shift• policy
shift• action shot• air show• art show• family show• film show•
game show• radio show• road show• stage show• trade show•
business side• east side• home side• league side• management
side• marketing side• birth sign• danger sign• direction sign•
plus sign• pound sign• pub sign• road sign• shop sign• star sign•
street sign• traffic sign• warning sign• hand signal• radio signal•
baby sister• kid sister• building site• development site• home
site• hospital site• school site• crisis situation• work situation•
world situation• class size• family size• foot size• group size•
life size• market size• business skill• research skill• study skill•
January sky• night sky• class society• consumer society• village
society• design software• foot soldier• government soldier• baby
son• country song• love song• guitar sound• speech sound• food
source• government source• information source• police source•
power source• water source• air space• office space• plant
species• conference speech• air speed• community spirit• party
spirit• team spirit• country sport• minority sport• team sport•
water sport• food spot• number spot• term spring• city square•
market square• town square• bar staff• hospital staff• hotel staff•
kitchen staff• teaching staff• centre stage• committee stage•
design stage• development stage• planning stage• information
stand• market stand• trade stand• health standard• evening star•
film star• football star• movie star• screen star• TV star• member
state• nation state• police state• government statement• radio
station• hospital stay• dance step• food stock• department store•
food store• cover story• crime story• life story• love story• news
story• success story• city street• side street• village street• police
strength• union strength• air strike• body structure• class structure•
committee structure• family structure• power structure• price
structure• tax structure• college student• engineering student•
history student• law student• research student• school student•
university student• business studies• art studio• film studio• case
study• field study• language study• pilot study• research study•
study subject• business success• business suit• record sum• August
sun• food supplies• office supplies• air supply• food supply•
labour supply• money supply• oil supply• power supply• water
supply• air support• child support• community support• family
support• government support• price support• state support•
party supporter• government supporters• ground surface• land
surface• road surface• water surface• land survey• market survey•
number one suspect• power switch• time switch• conference
table• peace talk(s)• radio talk• team talk• trade talk• army tank•
oil tank• water tank• music tape• paper tape• ground target• car
tax• company tax• council tax• energy tax• fuel tax• income tax•
investment tax• land tax• property tax• purchase tax• road tax•
vehicle tax• art teacher• class room• class teacher• head teacher•
history teacher• music teacher• school teacher• Sunday school
teacher• university teacher• woman teacher• music teaching•
university teaching• campaign team• design team• development
team• dream team• foot ball team• home team• investigation
team• management team• marketing team• production team•
project team• research team• youth team• research technique•
information technology• office telephone• radio telephone• colour
television• state television• air temperature• April temperature•
body temperature• room temperature• water temperature• family
tension• college term• contract term• prison term• school term•
spring term• teaching term• university term• peace terms• home
territory• state terrorism• achievement test• blood test• breath
test• drug test• eye test• field test• flight test• language test•
memory test• road test• safety test• screen test• sight test• skin
test• community theatre• music theatre• street theatre• campaign
theme• conference theme• research theme• second thought• air
ticket• day ticket• family ticket• season ticket• club tie• school
tie• business ties• family ties• arrival time• departure time•
journey time• record time• summer time• travel time• book title•
film title• job title• world title• design tool• development tool•
hand tool• power tool• research tool• bottle top• hill top• roof
top• table top• tree top• research topic• record total• world total•
city tour• study tour• world tour• border town• country town•
holiday town• home town• market town• university town• car
track• race track• book trade• export trade• tourist trade• wine
trade• world trade• family tradition• air traffic• city traffic• foot
traffic• radio traffic• road traffic• night train• job training• staff
training• bank transfer• information transfer• land transfer• air
transport• city transport• ground transport• land transport• road
transport• water transport• air travel• business travel• car travel•
time travel• world travel• drug treatment• hospital treatment•
water treatment• peace treaty• state treaty• test ban treaty• union
treaty• market trend• home trial• day trip• school trip• study
trip• world trip• family trouble• girl trouble• man trouble• family
trust• hospital trust• home truth• city type• product type• control
unit• family unit• policy unit• power unit• research unit• research
university• drug use• business user• car user• drug user• end user•
home user• rail road user• service user• family values• police van•
police vehicle• road vehicle• cover version• stage version• attack
victim• child victim• election victory• home video• music video•
police video• security video• minority view• mountain view• sea
view• side view• world view• country village• home village• night
vision• home visit• hospital visit• research visit• school visit• state
visit• study visit• trade visit• business visitor• health visitor• home
visitor• hospital visitor• country walk• garden wall• kitchen wall•
sea wall• side wall• stone wall• air war• class war• price war• trade
war• world war• food waste• hospital waste• plant waste• night
watch• sea water• spring water• radio wave• body weight• oil
well• war widow• cup final win• house wine• hospital wing• Cup
winner• election winner• match winner• race winner• business
woman• career woman• boy wonder• house-hold word• loan word•
art work• building work• community work• course work• group
work• office work• paper work• research work• road work(s)•
assembly-line worker• care worker• charity worker• community
worker• construction worker• council worker• factory worker•
farm worker• field worker• health worker• hospital worker• metal
worker• office worker• production worker• railway worker• relief
worker• rescue worker• research worker• shift worker• transport
worker• woman worker• youth worker• development workshop•
music workshop• research workshop• art world• business world•
dream world• fashion world• plant world• business worry• health
worry• film writer• music writer• report writer• staff writer•
woman writer• report writing• election year• record year• school
year• tax year• security zone• time zone• war zone.


@. Group 1
• Are there any oranges? • Are there any shops near here?
• Are these my books? • Are those your keys on the table? •
Can I hire a car? • Can I see you tomorrow? • Could we go
to a restaurant tomorrow? • Could we have coffee, please? •
Could we have some more bread, please? • Could you call a
taxi, please? • Could you call me at half past eight? • Could you
leave me alone, please? • Could you tell me when we get there?
• Do you like Agra? • Do you like going to the cinema? • Do you
want a map? • Do you want some oranges? • Do you want to
visit your friends? • Follow the signs for Pune. • Go straight on.
• Have you got the suitcases? • Have you got an apple? • Have
you got any money? • He’s got very good security. • Here it is. •
Here we are. • How are you? • How do you do? • How do you
feel? • How long have you been here? • How many are there?
• How many would you like? • How much are they? • How
much do they weigh? • How much does it cost? • How much
does it weigh? • How much is it? • I can’t get through. • I can’t
understand you. • I cannot give you this garment without some
identification. • I cannot tolerate nuts. I’m allergic. • I come from
Delhi. • I come from Brazil. • I didn’t go to Goa last year. • I
didn’t have breakfast this morning.
• I don’t like the colour. • I don’t like watching television. •
I don’t need a copy. • I don’t really want to go. • I don’t really
want to meet them. • I don’t want them to go at all. • I don’t
want to ask them. • I don’t want to go alone. • I don’t want to
hear a(nother) peep out of you! • I don’t want to hear any more.
• I don’t want to play. • I don’t want to wear out my welcome. • I
feel better. • I feel fine. • I feel hot and cold. • I feel sick. • I find
that hard to believe. • I find that hard to swallow. • I find the
report encouraging. • I follow you. • I forgive you. • I gave him
a piece of my mind. • I gave him a pound to pay the bill. • I gave
him five pounds. • I gave them back to you. • I gave you a list of
all colours. • I had no idea how to get there. • I hate it. • I hate to
eat and run. • I have a reservation. • I have an appointment with
Mr. Felix. • I have complete faith in you. • I have confidence in
you. • I have coupons. • I have empty pockets. • I have excellent
vision. • I have faith in you. • I have good eyesight. • I haven’t
got any presents. • I haven’t got the receipt. • I hope that you
feel better soon. • I hope to see you again.• I hope you enjoy our
country. • I hope you’re satisfied. • I hope you’re sorry. • I hoped
you’d be there earlier. • I intend to stand my ground. • I just can’t
afford a car. • I just can’t make up my mind.• I just daren’t pick
it up. • I know it backwards and forwards. • I know it for a fact.
• I know it inside and out.
• I know my math/carpentry/cooking/history/computers. •
I know what I’m talking about. • I like the buildings. • I love the
food. • I must get some money. • I must go to New York. • I need
a guide book. • I need some money. • I need to go to London. •
I really love you. • I really must be off. • I really must go now.
• I really need it now. • I regret it now. • I remain skeptical. •
I shouldn’t have said that. • I simply daren’t think about it. • I
simply don’t understand her. • I slept from dusk to dawn. • I smell
gas. • I sold the carpet today. • I still can’t find it. • I still don’t
understand. • I stopped smoking a long time ago. • I suppose I
must write to him, then. • I think Alfredo broke it. • I think my
leg is broken. • I think my watch needs a new battery. • I think
that this is your last one. • I think there was a mistake in my last
pay-cheque. • I think they’d all agree. • I think this is Sheila’s
umbrella. • I thought it was a huge success. • I thought of going
for a walk. • I thought she was in Los Angeles. • I thought she’d
never calm down. • I thought they all look one. • I thought we
were going to the cinema. • I thought you didn’t drink at all. • I
thought you didn’t drink coffee.
• I tried quitting. • I trust you completely. • I trust you
implicitly. • I understand what you’re saying. • I used to live in
Tokyo. • I waited there two solid hours. • I want it back in one
piece. ( = unbroken/unharmed). • I want the steak thoroughly
cooked. • I want them now. • I want this back. • I want this
place spotless. • I want those shoes mended quickly. • I won’t
be coming after all. • I won’t be coming. • I won’t go shopping
tomorrow. • I won’t have anything, thank you. • I wonder if the
train will be late. • I wonder if this train has got a buffet. • I
wonder what the time is. • I’d better go home. • I’d better write
to him. • I’d like a room at the rear. • I’d like a room, please. •
I’d like a ticket to Mumbai, please. • I’d like just a trim. • I’d like
some coffee, please. • I’d like three, please. • I’d like to buy a
5-rupee stamp, please. • I’d like to buy a book of stamps, please.
• I’d like to close my checking account. • I’d like to do some
shopping. • I’d like to have this coat cleaned. • I’d like to have
this film developed. • I’d like to make a motion. • I’d like to make
a withdrawal. • I’d like to move that we accept the proposal. • I’d
like to open a checking account. • I’d like to order a back issue. •
I’d like to order a cake. • I’d like to pick up a package. • I’d like
to purchase a certificate of deposit. • I’d like to try it on. • I’d love
to go France. • I’d love to see your flat. • I’d prefer a quite room,
please. • I’d prefer tea. • I’d prefer to go to the cinema.
@. Group 2
• I’ll be going there sometime. • I’ll be gone just a few
minutes. • I’ll be home late. • I’ll be in touch. • I’ll be right with
you. • I’ll be seeing Sharma later on. • I’ll be seeing you. • I’ll be
there after dinner. • I’ll be there by seven. • I’ll be there by six
at the latest. • I’ll buy the coffee. • I’ll go shopping tomorrow.
• I’ll have some soup, please. • I’ll have the duck, please. • I’ll
leave it. • I’ll sing you my song. • I’ll sit up and wait. • I’ll stand
by you. • I’ll stay up for you. • I’ll sue him. • I’ll take it when
you’re ready. • I’ll take it. • I’ll take the rap. • I’m a teacher. • I’m
afraid I forgot to return it. • I’m afraid I have to be going. • I’m
afraid I’m late. • I’m afraid I’ve bought lots of things. • I’m afraid
that we haven’t got any. • I’m fine, thanks. And you? • I’m fine.
• I’m glad to say she’s safe. • I’m glad you started without me.
• I’m going around to Ahmed’s. • I’m going crazy. • I’m going
for a walk. • I’m going numb. • I’m going on vacation. Can you
hold my paper for two weeks? (= stop delivery of my paper). •
I’m going right to the top. • I’m going to be a little late with the
rent. • I’m going to bed. • I’m going to visit a friend tomorrow. •
I’m going to write a letter. • I’m here if you want to talk about it.
• I’m here to see Mrs. Varma. • I’m hungry. • I’m in big trouble.
• I’m in deep trouble. • I’m in (too) deep. • I’m in love with
you.• I’m in love. • I’m in the doldrums. • I’m in the market for
a van. • I’m in the red. • I’m looking for a German-made car. •
I’m looking for a one-room apartment. • I’m looking for a studio
(apartment). • I’m looking for something for my husband. • I’m
looking for something for my wife. • I’m looking forward to next
year’s holiday. • I’m looking forward to the play. • I’m losing my
mind. • I’m mad at the world. • I’m madly in love (with you).
• I’m more than willing to meet you halfway. • I’m moving,
and I’d like to give you my new address. • I’m not going to Berlin
next week. • I’m passionately in love with you.• I’m Rahul Mehta.
• I’m so excited. • I’m so happy. • I’m so pleased you’re coming.
• I’m sorry I don’t understand. • I’m sorry that you’re feeling ill.
• I’m sorry you’re ill. • I’m sorry, I can’t meet you tomorrow. •
I’m sorry, I’m hard of hearing. • I’m sorry, I’m hearing-impaired.
• I’m sorry, I’ve never done this before. • I’m sorry, there are
no tickets available. • I’m telling (Mom). • I’m telling you this
in confidence. • I’m telling you this in strictest confidence. •
I’m terribly sorry about that. • I’m terribly sorry. • I’m terribly
worried about it. • I’m there with you. • I’m thinking of having
central heating. • I’m to call back at lunch time. • I’m to stay
there six weeks. • I’m very well, thank you. • I’ve been cut off.
• I’ve got a broken arm. • I’ve got a cold. • I’ve got a friend in
Paris. • I’ve got a headache. • I’ve got a hotel in Ooty. • I’ve got
a temperature. • I’ve got some cigarettes. • I’ve got the tickets.
• I’ve left you a few. • I’ve lent him your newspaper. • I’ve lost
Nizam’s watch. • I’ve never met them. • I’ve resigned. • I’ve said
I’ll meet you. • I’ve said I’m sorry. • I’ve seen better days. • I’ve
sold my house. • I’ve travelled the globe from pole to pole. • I’ve
turned up at last. • I’ve walked ten miles today. • I’ve written all
my letters.
• If anyone calls, please take a message. • If I can help you,
just let me know. • If I could only turn back the clock. • If I don’t
go now, I’ll be late. • If I go now, I’ll be early. • If I had gone
then, I would have been early. • If I hadn’t gone then, I would
have been early. • If I hadn’t gone then, I would have been late.
• If your payment comes in past the fifth, a late charge will be
added. • Is that the Qutab Minar over there? • Is there a bank
near here? • Is there any tea? • Is this the bus for London?
• It doesn’t fit. • It doesn’t matter. • It fits very well. • It isn’t
long enough. • It made my flesh crawl. • It makes no difference.
• It was my fault. • It weighs two hundred grams. • It’s a good
fit. • It’s a nice day today, isn’t it? • It’s bright and sunny. • It’s
broken. • It’s certain. • It’s cinched. • It’s cold in here. • It’s cold.
• It’s common knowledge. • It’s dreadful. • It’s due in June. •
It’s easy as ABC. • It’s easy to be wise after the event. • It’s eight
o’clock. • It’s eighty degrees. • It’s engaged. • It’s entirely up to
you Fred. • It’s exactly three o’clock. • It’s fabulous. • It’s fate.
• It’s fine. • It’s fit for the junkyard. • It’s foggy. • It’s for sure. •
It’s four hundred feet tall. • It’s getting late. • It’s going to be a
scorcher. • It’s going to freeze tonight. • It’s going to happen. •
It’s going to snow. • It’s good enough. • It’s good to have friends,
isn’t it? • It’s got a good rhythm. • It’s got a zip. • It’s got five
pounds in it. • It’s great to be alive! • It’s half past ten. • It’s half
past three. • It’s half past. • It’s harder than it looks. • It’s harder
than you think. • It’s hideous. • It’s hot in here. • It’s hot. • It’s
humid. • It’s ideal. • It’s impossible. • It’s in a league of its own.
• It’s in the bag. • It’s in the repair shop. • It’s in the stars. • It’s
just after three. • It’s just as I expected. • It’s left my head. • It’s
like an oven in here. • It’s made of plastic. • It’s nearly six o’clock.
• It’s nice to see you again. • It’s no use buying that clock. • It’s
no use ringing Priya. • It’s none of my business. • It’s noon. • It’s
not a very difficult game. • It’s not all that serious. • It’s not as
bad as all that. • It’s not as easy as it looks. • It’s not as easy as it
seems. • It’s not fair. I lost. • It’s not for me. • It’s not important.
• It’s not in my job description. • It’s not much farther. • It’s red.
• It’s ringing. • It’s round. • It’s small. • It’s too long. • It’s seven
hundred and fifty.
• Let’s go to the cinema. • Let’s have a drink. • No, I don’t
want any. • No, I don’t want to. • No, I don’t. • No, it costs too
much. • No, it isn’t. • No, let’s watch television instead. • No,
thank you. • No, there aren’t. • No, there isn’t. • No, you can’t. •
Not long, about ten minutes. • Not that way! • On the left. • On
the right. • Over there.