Bitcoin standard

1. Primitive monies

Money is a medium of exchange. 
Lack of coincidences: scales, time, location.

Rai stones of Yap Island, aggry beads of Western Africa, sea sells of North America == low stock-to-flow ratio
Why gold? 1.5% of stockpile. 
Rise and fall of Roman Empire: with the loss of sound money, serfdom. 
Byzantium
Renaissance -- Florin
Why China and India could never catch up to the West in the twentieth century.== demonitization of silver
Meanwhile, gold entered the banks' vaults and allowed them to become more and more centralized
The understanding of soundness of money shifted from salability as a market good to resistance to control by a sovereign.

from a global gold standard, 1930 government-controlled money
1717. 1871. 1930 WWI

4. Government Money 
Two important facts.
difference between redeemable vs. irredeemable govt. money
no fiat money through govt. fiat.

Monetary Nationlism and the End of the Free World
1914 snowball effect.

Depreciation of various currencies against Swiss Franc.
Increased aggregate production, inflation. The Great Depression.  Trade barriers. Criticism of Keynesian economics. 

WW II & Bretton Woods
US Dollar as global reserve, central planning, constant monetary and fiscal management.

Devaluation & appreciation. No adjusting mechanism. Internation Monetary Fund failure.
Military-Industrial Complex.
a conglomerate of industries demanding ever more funding from the government

Government's Money Track Record
Abandoned 1971 gold standard. Growth rate of gold is below 2% of the existing stockpile while average government-money grew at rate of 32.16% from 1960 to 2015.

(A crash-course on economics, history of money)

5. Money and Time Preference
All decision making is a function of time preferecne.

Low time preferecne == investment

Monetary Inflation
medium of exchange, store of value, unit of account
divisible and groupable; supply doesn't matter.

Central banks continue to hold on to their gold reserves and betray their confidence in their own currencies. 

Saving and Capital Accumulation

soundness of money has strong bearings on savings and investments.
Savings rates have been declining in the developed countries. 


===========
Becoming Steve Jobs

I recently read Ashlee Vance's Elon Musk. Though it is an authoritative book, it doesn't quite dwell on Musk as person as much as the current book dwells on Steve Jobs. I find Becoming Steve Jobs better, more nuanced, and more colorful.

I'm sure almost everyone who uses smart phones/computers has heard about Steve Jobs and Apple Corporation. We heard Steve Jobs as driven, unemotional, ambitious, selfish, hyper who drove his employees crazy, pushed them to the limits of their ability, and generally gave them hell.

Well, everything we heard is correct. But it's not the complete truth. A human being lives for many years. He passes through adolescent, youth, middle-age, and old age. Time teaches a lot to a perceptive, sensitive man. And Steve Jobs was one of the most perceptive, senstive persons; he learnt a great deal. And he grew to be a more rounded person. An entrepreneur, founder, visionary, leader, team player, husband, father, and so on. He made money, lost money, and made a lot more. He got famous,was ridiculed, but came back stronger. He often offended his employees, but learnt to respect when respect was due. He rushed single-mindedly for what he wanted. Later, he learnt to ask for opinions and suggestions.

This book is about Steve Jobs as a person. What was Steve Jobs when he founded companies, when he got kicked out, when he started again, when he wasn't so sure, when he was mocked, when he staked everything, when he gained glory.

From starting out from his garage with Steve Wozniak, rolling out of Apple, founding Apple Corporation, fouding NeXT, buying Pixar, to coming back to Apple, this book gives account of Jobs's thought-process and his actions. The author was a friend of Steve Jobs and had been covering Steve Jobs and Apple for Fortune Magazine. He personally interviewed Jobs and the people he came in contact with.

You'd understand Steve Jobs better after reading this book. He'd appear more humane, a little more humble than we take him for. His passion for technology, his attention to details, his obsession to create, his vision to set standards, these things are the recurring themes in the book. Jobs loved technology, adored beauty. He was a consumate artist in the digital medium. 
